During the War of the Rebellion, a new and influential club was
established in the city of Baltimore in the State of Maryland. It is
well known with what energy the taste for military matters became
developed among that nation of ship-owners, shopkeepers, and mechanics.
Simple tradesmen jumped their counters to become extemporized captains,
colonels, and generals, without having ever passed the School of
Instruction at West Point; nevertheless; they quickly rivaled their
compeers of the old continent, and, like them, carried off victories by
dint of lavish expenditure in ammunition, money, and men.

But the point in which the Americans singularly distanced the Europeans
was in the science of gunnery. Not, indeed, that their weapons
retained a higher degree of perfection than theirs, but that they
exhibited unheard-of dimensions, and consequently attained hitherto
unheard-of ranges. In point of grazing, plunging, oblique, or
enfilading, or point-blank firing, the English, French, and Prussians
have nothing to learn; but their cannon, howitzers, and mortars are
mere pocket-pistols compared with the formidable engines of the
American artillery.

This fact need surprise no one. The Yankees, the first mechanicians in
the world, are engineers—just as the Italians are musicians and the
Germans metaphysicians—by right of birth. Nothing is more natural,
therefore, than to perceive them applying their audacious ingenuity to
the science of gunnery. Witness the marvels of Parrott, Dahlgren, and
Rodman. The Armstrong, Palliser, and Beaulieu guns were compelled to
bow before their transatlantic rivals.

Now when an American has an idea, he directly seeks a second American
to share it. If there be three, they elect a president and two
secretaries. Given four, they name a keeper of records, and the
office is ready for work; five, they convene a general meeting, and
the club is fully constituted. So things were managed in Baltimore. The
inventor of a new cannon associated himself with the caster and the
borer. Thus was formed the nucleus of the “Gun Club.” In a single month
after its formation it numbered 1,833 effective members and 30,565
corresponding members.

One condition was imposed as a sine quâ non upon every candidate for
admission into the association, and that was the condition of having
designed, or (more or less) perfected a cannon; or, in default of a
cannon, at least a firearm of some description. It may, however, be
mentioned that mere inventors of revolvers, fire-shooting carbines, and
similar small arms, met with little consideration. Artillerists always
commanded the chief place of favor.

The estimation in which these gentlemen were held, according to one of
the most scientific exponents of the Gun Club, was “proportional to the
masses of their guns, and in the direct ratio of the square of the
distances attained by their projectiles.”

The Gun Club once founded, it is easy to conceive the result of the
inventive genius of the Americans. Their military weapons attained
colossal proportions, and their projectiles, exceeding the prescribed
limits, unfortunately occasionally cut in two some unoffending
pedestrians. These inventions, in fact, left far in the rear the timid
instruments of European artillery.

It is but fair to add that these Yankees, brave as they have ever
proved themselves to be, did not confine themselves to theories and
formulae, but that they paid heavily, in propriâ personâ, for their
inventions. Among them were to be counted officers of all ranks, from
lieutenants to generals; military men of every age, from those who were
just making their début in the profession of arms up to those who had
grown old in the gun-carriage. Many had found their rest on the field
of battle whose names figured in the “Book of Honor” of the Gun Club;
and of those who made good their return the greater proportion bore the
marks of their indisputable valor. Crutches, wooden legs, artificial
arms, steel hooks, caoutchouc jaws, silver craniums, platinum noses,
were all to be found in the collection; and it was calculated by the
great statistician Pitcairn that throughout the Gun Club there was not
quite one arm between four persons and two legs between six.

Nevertheless, these valiant artillerists took no particular account of
these little facts, and felt justly proud when the despatches of a
battle returned the number of victims at ten-fold the quantity of
projectiles expended.

One day, however—sad and melancholy day!—peace was signed between the
survivors of the war; the thunder of the guns gradually ceased, the
mortars were silent, the howitzers were muzzled for an indefinite
period, the cannon, with muzzles depressed, were returned into the
arsenal, the shot were repiled, all bloody reminiscences were effaced;
the cotton-plants grew luxuriantly in the well-manured fields, all
mourning garments were laid aside, together with grief; and the Gun
Club was relegated to profound inactivity.

Some few of the more advanced and inveterate theorists set themselves
again to work upon calculations regarding the laws of projectiles. They
reverted invariably to gigantic shells and howitzers of unparalleled
caliber. Still in default of practical experience what was the value of
mere theories? Consequently, the clubrooms became deserted, the
servants dozed in the antechambers, the newspapers grew mouldy on the
tables, sounds of snoring came from dark corners, and the members of
the Gun Club, erstwhile so noisy in their seances, were reduced to
silence by this disastrous peace and gave themselves up wholly to
dreams of a Platonic kind of artillery.

“This is horrible!” said Tom Hunter one evening, while rapidly
carbonizing his wooden legs in the fireplace of the smoking-room;
“nothing to do! nothing to look forward to! what a loathsome existence!
When again shall the guns arouse us in the morning with their
delightful reports?”

“Those days are gone by,” said jolly Bilsby, trying to extend his
missing arms. “It was delightful once upon a time! One invented a gun,
and hardly was it cast, when one hastened to try it in the face of the
enemy! Then one returned to camp with a word of encouragement from
Sherman or a friendly shake of the hand from McClellan. But now the
generals are gone back to their counters; and in place of projectiles,
they despatch bales of cotton. By Jove, the future of gunnery in
America is lost!”

“Ay! and no war in prospect!” continued the famous James T. Maston,
scratching with his steel hook his gutta-percha cranium. “Not a cloud
on the horizon! and that too at such a critical period in the progress
of the science of artillery! Yes, gentlemen! I who address you have
myself this very morning perfected a model (plan, section, elevation,
etc.) of a mortar destined to change all the conditions of warfare!”

“No! is it possible?” replied Tom Hunter, his thoughts reverting
involuntarily to a former invention of the Hon. J. T. Maston, by which,
at its first trial, he had succeeded in killing three hundred and
thirty-seven people.

“Fact!” replied he. “Still, what is the use of so many studies worked
out, so many difficulties vanquished? It’s mere waste of time! The New
World seems to have made up its mind to live in peace; and our
bellicose Tribune predicts some approaching catastrophes arising out
of this scandalous increase of population.”

“Nevertheless,” replied Colonel Blomsberry, “they are always struggling
in Europe to maintain the principle of nationalities.”

“Well?”

“Well, there might be some field for enterprise down there; and if they
would accept our services—”

“What are you dreaming of?” screamed Bilsby; “work at gunnery for the
benefit of foreigners?”

“That would be better than doing nothing here,” returned the colonel.

“Quite so,” said J. T. Matson; “but still we need not dream of that
expedient.”

“And why not?” demanded the colonel.

“Because their ideas of progress in the Old World are contrary to our
American habits of thought. Those fellows believe that one can’t become
a general without having served first as an ensign; which is as much as
to say that one can’t point a gun without having first cast it
oneself!”

“Ridiculous!” replied Tom Hunter, whittling with his bowie-knife the
arms of his easy chair; “but if that be the case there, all that is
left for us is to plant tobacco and distill whale-oil.”

“What!” roared J. T. Maston, “shall we not employ these remaining years
of our life in perfecting firearms? Shall there never be a fresh
opportunity of trying the ranges of projectiles? Shall the air never
again be lighted with the glare of our guns? No international
difficulty ever arise to enable us to declare war against some
transatlantic power? Shall not the French sink one of our steamers, or
the English, in defiance of the rights of nations, hang a few of our
countrymen?”

“No such luck,” replied Colonel Blomsberry; “nothing of the kind is
likely to happen; and even if it did, we should not profit by it.
American susceptibility is fast declining, and we are all going to the
dogs.”

“It is too true,” replied J. T. Maston, with fresh violence; “there are
a thousand grounds for fighting, and yet we don’t fight. We save up our
arms and legs for the benefit of nations who don’t know what to do with
them! But stop—without going out of one’s way to find a cause for
war—did not North America once belong to the English?”

“Undoubtedly,” replied Tom Hunter, stamping his crutch with fury.

“Well, then,” replied J. T. Maston, “why should not England in her turn
belong to the Americans?”

“It would be but just and fair,” returned Colonel Blomsberry.

“Go and propose it to the President of the United States,” cried J. T.
Maston, “and see how he will receive you.”

“Bah!” growled Bilsby between the four teeth which the war had left
him; “that will never do!”

“By Jove!” cried J. T. Maston, “he mustn’t count on my vote at the next
election!”

“Nor on ours,” replied unanimously all the bellicose invalids.

“Meanwhile,” replied J. T. Maston, “allow me to say that, if I cannot
get an opportunity to try my new mortars on a real field of battle, I
shall say good-by to the members of the Gun Club, and go and bury
myself in the prairies of Arkansas!”

“In that case we will accompany you,” cried the others.

Matters were in this unfortunate condition, and the club was threatened
with approaching dissolution, when an unexpected circumstance occurred
to prevent so deplorable a catastrophe.

On the morrow after this conversation every member of the association
received a sealed circular couched in the following terms:

BALTIMORE, October 3. The president of the Gun Club has the honor to
inform his colleagues that, at the meeting of the 5th instant, he will
bring before them a communication of an extremely interesting nature.
He requests, therefore, that they will make it convenient to attend in
accordance with the present invitation. Very cordially, IMPEY
BARBICANE, P.G.C.

On the 5th of October, at eight p.m., a dense crowd pressed toward the
saloons of the Gun Club at No. 21 Union Square. All the members of the
association resident in Baltimore attended the invitation of their
president. As regards the corresponding members, notices were delivered
by hundreds throughout the streets of the city, and, large as was the
great hall, it was quite inadequate to accommodate the crowd of
savants. They overflowed into the adjoining rooms, down the narrow
passages, into the outer courtyards. There they ran against the vulgar
herd who pressed up to the doors, each struggling to reach the front
ranks, all eager to learn the nature of the important communication of
President Barbicane; all pushing, squeezing, crushing with that perfect
freedom of action which is so peculiar to the masses when educated in
ideas of “self-government.”

On that evening a stranger who might have chanced to be in Baltimore
could not have gained admission for love or money into the great hall.
That was reserved exclusively for resident or corresponding members; no
one else could possibly have obtained a place; and the city magnates,
municipal councilors, and “select men” were compelled to mingle with
the mere townspeople in order to catch stray bits of news from the
interior.

Nevertheless the vast hall presented a curious spectacle. Its immense
area was singularly adapted to the purpose. Lofty pillars formed of
cannon, superposed upon huge mortars as a base, supported the fine
ironwork of the arches, a perfect piece of cast-iron lacework. Trophies
of blunderbuses, matchlocks, arquebuses, carbines, all kinds of
firearms, ancient and modern, were picturesquely interlaced against the
walls. The gas lit up in full glare myriads of revolvers grouped in the
form of lustres, while groups of pistols, and candelabra formed of
muskets bound together, completed this magnificent display of
brilliance. Models of cannon, bronze castings, sights covered with
dents, plates battered by the shots of the Gun Club, assortments of
rammers and sponges, chaplets of shells, wreaths of projectiles,
garlands of howitzers—in short, all the apparatus of the artillerist,
enchanted the eye by this wonderful arrangement and induced a kind of
belief that their real purpose was ornamental rather than deadly.

At the further end of the saloon the president, assisted by four
secretaries, occupied a large platform. His chair, supported by a
carved gun-carriage, was modeled upon the ponderous proportions of a
32-inch mortar. It was pointed at an angle of ninety degrees, and
suspended upon truncheons, so that the president could balance himself
upon it as upon a rocking-chair, a very agreeable fact in the very hot
weather. Upon the table (a huge iron plate supported upon six
carronades) stood an inkstand of exquisite elegance, made of a
beautifully chased Spanish piece, and a sonnette, which, when required,
could give forth a report equal to that of a revolver. During violent
debates this novel kind of bell scarcely sufficed to drown the clamor
of these excitable artillerists.

In front of the table benches arranged in zigzag form, like the
circumvallations of a retrenchment, formed a succession of bastions and
curtains set apart for the use of the members of the club; and on this
especial evening one might say, “All the world was on the ramparts.”
The president was sufficiently well known, however, for all to be
assured that he would not put his colleagues to discomfort without some
very strong motive.

Impey Barbicane was a man of forty years of age, calm, cold, austere;
of a singularly serious and self-contained demeanor, punctual as a
chronometer, of imperturbable temper and immovable character; by no
means chivalrous, yet adventurous withal, and always bringing practical
ideas to bear upon the very rashest enterprises; an essentially New
Englander, a Northern colonist, a descendant of the old anti-Stuart
Roundheads, and the implacable enemy of the gentlemen of the South,
those ancient cavaliers of the mother country. In a word, he was a
Yankee to the backbone.

Barbicane had made a large fortune as a timber merchant. Being
nominated director of artillery during the war, he proved himself
fertile in invention. Bold in his conceptions, he contributed
powerfully to the progress of that arm and gave an immense impetus to
experimental researches.

He was personage of the middle height, having, by a rare exception in
the Gun Club, all his limbs complete. His strongly marked features
seemed drawn by square and rule; and if it be true that, in order to
judge a man’s character one must look at his profile, Barbicane, so
examined, exhibited the most certain indications of energy, audacity,
and sang-froid.

At this moment he was sitting in his armchair, silent, absorbed, lost
in reflection, sheltered under his high-crowned hat—a kind of black
cylinder which always seems firmly screwed upon the head of an
American.

Just when the deep-toned clock in the great hall struck eight,
Barbicane, as if he had been set in motion by a spring, raised himself
up. A profound silence ensued, and the speaker, in a somewhat emphatic
tone of voice, commenced as follows:

“My brave, colleagues, too long already a paralyzing peace has plunged
the members of the Gun Club in deplorable inactivity. After a period of
years full of incidents we have been compelled to abandon our labors,
and to stop short on the road of progress. I do not hesitate to state,
baldly, that any war which would recall us to arms would be welcome!”
(Tremendous applause!) “But war, gentlemen, is impossible under
existing circumstances; and, however we may desire it, many years may
elapse before our cannon shall again thunder in the field of battle. We
must make up our minds, then, to seek in another train of ideas some
field for the activity which we all pine for.”

The meeting felt that the president was now approaching the critical
point, and redoubled their attention accordingly.

“For some months past, my brave colleagues,” continued Barbicane, “I
have been asking myself whether, while confining ourselves to our own
particular objects, we could not enter upon some grand experiment
worthy of the nineteenth century; and whether the progress of artillery
science would not enable us to carry it out to a successful issue. I
have been considering, working, calculating; and the result of my
studies is the conviction that we are safe to succeed in an enterprise
which to any other country would appear wholly impracticable. This
project, the result of long elaboration, is the object of my present
communication. It is worthy of yourselves, worthy of the antecedents of
the Gun Club; and it cannot fail to make some noise in the world.”

A thrill of excitement ran through the meeting.

Barbicane, having by a rapid movement firmly fixed his hat upon his
head, calmly continued his harangue:

“There is no one among you, my brave colleagues, who has not seen the
Moon, or, at least, heard speak of it. Don’t be surprised if I am about
to discourse to you regarding the Queen of the Night. It is perhaps
reserved for us to become the Columbuses of this unknown world. Only
enter into my plans, and second me with all your power, and I will lead
you to its conquest, and its name shall be added to those of the
thirty-six states which compose this Great Union.”

“Three cheers for the Moon!” roared the Gun Club, with one voice.

“The moon, gentlemen, has been carefully studied,” continued Barbicane;
“her mass, density, and weight; her constitution, motions, distance, as
well as her place in the solar system, have all been exactly
determined. Selenographic charts have been constructed with a
perfection which equals, if it does not even surpass, that of our
terrestrial maps. Photography has given us proofs of the incomparable
beauty of our satellite; all is known regarding the moon which
mathematical science, astronomy, geology, and optics can learn about
her. But up to the present moment no direct communication has been
established with her.”

A violent movement of interest and surprise here greeted this remark of
the speaker.

“Permit me,” he continued, “to recount to you briefly how certain
ardent spirits, starting on imaginary journeys, have penetrated the
secrets of our satellite. In the seventeenth century a certain David
Fabricius boasted of having seen with his own eyes the inhabitants of
the moon. In 1649 a Frenchman, one Jean Baudoin, published a ‘Journey
performed from the Earth to the Moon by Domingo Gonzalez,’ a Spanish
adventurer. At the same period Cyrano de Bergerac published that
celebrated ‘Journeys in the Moon’ which met with such success in
France. Somewhat later another Frenchman, named Fontenelle, wrote ‘The
Plurality of Worlds,’ a chef-d’œuvre of its time. About 1835 a small
treatise, translated from the New York American, related how Sir John
Herschel, having been despatched to the Cape of Good Hope for the
purpose of making there some astronomical calculations, had, by means
of a telescope brought to perfection by means of internal lighting,
reduced the apparent distance of the moon to eighty yards! He then
distinctly perceived caverns frequented by hippopotami, green mountains
bordered by golden lace-work, sheep with horns of ivory, a white
species of deer and inhabitants with membranous wings, like bats. This
brochure, the work of an American named Locke, had a great sale. But,
to bring this rapid sketch to a close, I will only add that a certain
Hans Pfaal, of Rotterdam, launching himself in a balloon filled with a
gas extracted from nitrogen, thirty-seven times lighter than hydrogen,
reached the moon after a passage of nineteen hours. This journey, like
all previous ones, was purely imaginary; still, it was the work of a
popular American author—I mean Edgar Poe!”

“Cheers for Edgar Poe!” roared the assemblage, electrified by their
president’s words.

“I have now enumerated,” said Barbicane, “the experiments which I call
purely paper ones, and wholly insufficient to establish serious
relations with the Queen of the Night. Nevertheless, I am bound to add
that some practical geniuses have attempted to establish actual
communication with her. Thus, a few days ago, a German geometrician
proposed to send a scientific expedition to the steppes of Siberia.
There, on those vast plains, they were to describe enormous geometric
figures, drawn in characters of reflecting luminosity, among which was
the proposition regarding the ‘square of the hypothenuse,’ commonly
called the ‘Ass’s Bridge’ by the French. ‘Every intelligent being,’
said the geometrician, ‘must understand the scientific meaning of that
figure. The Selenites, do they exist, will respond by a similar figure;
and, a communication being thus once established, it will be easy to
form an alphabet which shall enable us to converse with the inhabitants
of the moon.’ So spoke the German geometrician; but his project was
never put into practice, and up to the present day there is no bond in
existence between the Earth and her satellite. It is reserved for the
practical genius of Americans to establish a communication with the
sidereal world. The means of arriving thither are simple, easy,
certain, infallible—and that is the purpose of my present proposal.”

A storm of acclamations greeted these words. There was not a single
person in the whole audience who was not overcome, carried away, lifted
out of himself by the speaker’s words!

Long-continued applause resounded from all sides.

As soon as the excitement had partially subsided, Barbicane resumed his
speech in a somewhat graver voice.

“You know,” said he, “what progress artillery science has made during
the last few years, and what a degree of perfection firearms of every
kind have reached. Moreover, you are well aware that, in general terms,
the resisting power of cannon and the expansive force of gunpowder are
practically unlimited. Well! starting from this principle, I ask myself
whether, supposing sufficient apparatus could be obtained constructed
upon the conditions of ascertained resistance, it might not be possible
to project a shot up to the moon?”

At these words a murmur of amazement escaped from a thousand panting
chests; then succeeded a moment of perfect silence, resembling that
profound stillness which precedes the bursting of a thunderstorm. In
point of fact, a thunderstorm did peal forth, but it was the thunder of
applause, or cries, and of uproar which made the very hall tremble. The
president attempted to speak, but could not. It was fully ten minutes
before he could make himself heard.

“Suffer me to finish,” he calmly continued. “I have looked at the
question in all its bearings, I have resolutely attacked it, and by
incontrovertible calculations I find that a projectile endowed with an
initial velocity of 12,000 yards per second, and aimed at the moon,
must necessarily reach it. I have the honor, my brave colleagues, to
propose a trial of this little experiment.”

It is impossible to describe the effect produced by the last words of
the honorable president—the cries, the shouts, the succession of roars,
hurrahs, and all the varied vociferations which the American language
is capable of supplying. It was a scene of indescribable confusion and
uproar. They shouted, they clapped, they stamped on the floor of the
hall. All the weapons in the museum discharged at once could not have
more violently set in motion the waves of sound. One need not be
surprised at this. There are some cannoneers nearly as noisy as their
own guns.

Barbicane remained calm in the midst of this enthusiastic clamor;
perhaps he was desirous of addressing a few more words to his
colleagues, for by his gestures he demanded silence, and his powerful
alarum was worn out by its violent reports. No attention, however, was
paid to his request. He was presently torn from his seat and passed
from the hands of his faithful colleagues into the arms of a no less
excited crowd.

Nothing can astound an American. It has often been asserted that the
word “impossible” is not a French one. People have evidently been
deceived by the dictionary. In America, all is easy, all is simple; and
as for mechanical difficulties, they are overcome before they arise.
Between Barbicane’s proposition and its realization no true Yankee
would have allowed even the semblance of a difficulty to be possible. A
thing with them is no sooner said than done.

The triumphal progress of the president continued throughout the
evening. It was a regular torchlight procession. Irish, Germans,
French, Scotch, all the heterogeneous units which make up the
population of Maryland shouted in their respective vernaculars; and the
“vivas,” “hurrahs,” and “bravos” were intermingled in inexpressible
enthusiasm.

Just at this crisis, as though she comprehended all this agitation
regarding herself, the moon shone forth with serene splendor, eclipsing
by her intense illumination all the surrounding lights. The Yankees all
turned their gaze toward her resplendent orb, kissed their hands,
called her by all kinds of endearing names. Between eight o’clock and
midnight one optician in Jones’-Fall Street made his fortune by the
sale of opera-glasses.

Midnight arrived, and the enthusiasm showed no signs of diminution. It
spread equally among all classes of citizens—men of science,
shopkeepers, merchants, porters, chair-men, as well as “greenhorns,”
were stirred in their innermost fibres. A national enterprise was at
stake. The whole city, high and low, the quays bordering the Patapsco,
the ships lying in the basins, disgorged a crowd drunk with joy, gin,
and whisky. Every one chattered, argued, discussed, disputed,
applauded, from the gentleman lounging upon the barroom settee with his
tumbler of sherry-cobbler before him down to the waterman who got drunk
upon his “knock-me-down” in the dingy taverns of Fell Point.

About two A.M., however, the excitement began to subside. President
Barbicane reached his house, bruised, crushed, and squeezed almost to a
mummy. Hercules could not have resisted a similar outbreak of
enthusiasm. The crowd gradually deserted the squares and streets. The
four railways from Philadelphia and Washington, Harrisburg and
Wheeling, which converge at Baltimore, whirled away the heterogeneous
population to the four corners of the United States, and the city
subsided into comparative tranquility.

On the following day, thanks to the telegraphic wires, five hundred
newspapers and journals, daily, weekly, monthly, or bi-monthly, all
took up the question. They examined it under all its different aspects,
physical, meteorological, economical, or moral, up to its bearings on
politics or civilization. They debated whether the moon was a finished
world, or whether it was destined to undergo any further
transformation. Did it resemble the earth at the period when the latter
was destitute as yet of an atmosphere? What kind of spectacle would its
hidden hemisphere present to our terrestrial spheroid? Granting that
the question at present was simply that of sending a projectile up to
the moon, every one must see that that involved the commencement of a
series of experiments. All must hope that some day America would
penetrate the deepest secrets of that mysterious orb; and some even
seemed to fear lest its conquest should not sensibly derange the
equilibrium of Europe.

The project once under discussion, not a single paragraph suggested a
doubt of its realization. All the papers, pamphlets, reports—all the
journals published by the scientific, literary, and religious societies
enlarged upon its advantages; and the Society of Natural History of
Boston, the Society of Science and Art of Albany, the Geographical and
Statistical Society of New York, the Philosophical Society of
Philadelphia, and the Smithsonian of Washington sent innumerable
letters of congratulation to the Gun Club, together with offers of
immediate assistance and money.

From that day forward Impey Barbicane became one of the greatest
citizens of the United States, a kind of Washington of science. A
single trait of feeling, taken from many others, will serve to show the
point which this homage of a whole people to a single individual
attained.

Some few days after this memorable meeting of the Gun Club, the manager
of an English company announced, at the Baltimore theatre, the
production of “Much ado about Nothing.” But the populace, seeing in
that title an allusion damaging to Barbicane’s project, broke into the
auditorium, smashed the benches, and compelled the unlucky director to
alter his playbill. Being a sensible man, he bowed to the public will
and replaced the offending comedy by “As you like it”; and for many
weeks he realized fabulous profits.

Barbicane, however, lost not one moment amid all the enthusiasm of
which he had become the object. His first care was to reassemble his
colleagues in the board-room of the Gun Club. There, after some
discussion, it was agreed to consult the astronomers regarding the
astronomical part of the enterprise. Their reply once ascertained, they
could then discuss the mechanical means, and nothing should be wanting
to ensure the success of this great experiment.

A note couched in precise terms, containing special interrogatories,
was then drawn up and addressed to the Observatory of Cambridge in
Massachusetts. This city, where the first university of the United
States was founded, is justly celebrated for its astronomical staff.
There are to be found assembled all the most eminent men of science.
Here is to be seen at work that powerful telescope which enabled Bond
to resolve the nebula of Andromeda, and Clarke to discover the
satellite of Sirius. This celebrated institution fully justified on all
points the confidence reposed in it by the Gun Club. So, after two
days, the reply so impatiently awaited was placed in the hands of
President Barbicane.

It was couched in the following terms:

The Director of the Cambridge Observatory to the President of the Gun
Club at Baltimore.

CAMBRIDGE, October 7. On the receipt of your favor of the 6th instant,
addressed to the Observatory of Cambridge in the name of the members of
the Baltimore Gun Club, our staff was immediately called together, and
it was judged expedient to reply as follows:

The questions which have been proposed to it are these—

“1. Is it possible to transmit a projectile up to the moon?

“2. What is the exact distance which separates the earth from its
satellite?

“3. What will be the period of transit of the projectile when endowed
with sufficient initial velocity? and, consequently, at what moment
ought it to be discharged in order that it may touch the moon at a
particular point?

“4. At what precise moment will the moon present herself in the most
favorable position to be reached by the projectile?

“5. What point in the heavens ought the cannon to be aimed at which is
intended to discharge the projectile?

“6. What place will the moon occupy in the heavens at the moment of the
projectile’s departure?”

Regarding the first question, “Is it possible to transmit a
projectile up to the moon?”

Answer.—Yes; provided it possess an initial velocity of 1,200 yards
per second; calculations prove that to be sufficient. In proportion as
we recede from the earth the action of gravitation diminishes in the
inverse ratio of the square of the distance; that is to say, at three
times a given distance the action is nine times less. Consequently,
the weight of a shot will decrease, and will become reduced to zero
at the instant that the attraction of the moon exactly counterpoises
that of the earth; that is to say at 47/52 of its passage. At that
instant the projectile will have no weight whatever; and, if it passes
that point, it will fall into the moon by the sole effect of the lunar
attraction. The theoretical possibility of the experiment is
therefore absolutely demonstrated; its success must depend upon the
power of the engine employed.

As to the second question, “What is the exact distance which
separates the earth from its satellite?”

Answer.—The moon does not describe a circle round the earth, but
rather an ellipse, of which our earth occupies one of the foci; the
consequence, therefore, is, that at certain times it approaches nearer
to, and at others it recedes farther from, the earth; in astronomical
language, it is at one time in apogee, at another in perigee. Now
the difference between its greatest and its least distance is too
considerable to be left out of consideration. In point of fact, in its
apogee the moon is 247,552 miles, and in its perigee, 218,657 miles
only distant; a fact which makes a difference of 28,895 miles, or more
than one-ninth of the entire distance. The perigee distance, therefore,
is that which ought to serve as the basis of all calculations.

To the third question:—

Answer.—If the shot should preserve continuously its initial velocity
of 12,000 yards per second, it would require little more than nine
hours to reach its destination; but, inasmuch as that initial velocity
will be continually decreasing, it will occupy 300,000 seconds, that is
83hrs. 20m. in reaching the point where the attraction of the earth and
moon will be in equilibrio. From this point it will fall into the
moon in 50,000 seconds, or 13hrs. 53m. 20sec. It will be desirable,
therefore, to discharge it 97hrs. 13m. 20sec. before the arrival of the
moon at the point aimed at.

Regarding question four, “At what precise moment will the moon
present herself in the most favorable position, etc.?”

Answer.—After what has been said above, it will be necessary, first
of all, to choose the period when the moon will be in perigee, and
also the moment when she will be crossing the zenith, which latter
event will further diminish the entire distance by a length equal to
the radius of the earth, i. e. 3,919 miles; the result of which will
be that the final passage remaining to be accomplished will be 214,976
miles. But although the moon passes her perigee every month, she does
not reach the zenith always at exactly the same moment. She does not
appear under these two conditions simultaneously, except at long
intervals of time. It will be necessary, therefore, to wait for the
moment when her passage in perigee shall coincide with that in the
zenith. Now, by a fortunate circumstance, on the 4th of December in the
ensuing year the moon will present these two conditions. At midnight
she will be in perigee, that is, at her shortest distance from the
earth, and at the same moment she will be crossing the zenith.

On the fifth question, “At what point in the heavens ought the cannon
to be aimed?”

Answer.—The preceding remarks being admitted, the cannon ought to be
pointed to the zenith of the place. Its fire, therefore, will be
perpendicular to the plane of the horizon; and the projectile will
soonest pass beyond the range of the terrestrial attraction. But, in
order that the moon should reach the zenith of a given place, it is
necessary that the place should not exceed in latitude the declination
of the luminary; in other words, it must be comprised within the
degrees 0° and 28° of lat. N. or S. In every other spot the fire must
necessarily be oblique, which would seriously militate against the
success of the experiment.

As to the sixth question, “What place will the moon occupy in the
heavens at the moment of the projectile’s departure?”

At the moment when the projectile shall be discharged into
space, the moon, which travels daily forward 13° 10′ 35″, will be
distant from the zenith point by four times that quantity, i. e. by
52° 41′ 20″, a space which corresponds to the path which she will
describe during the entire journey of the projectile. But, inasmuch as
it is equally necessary to take into account the deviation which the
rotary motion of the earth will impart to the shot, and as the shot
cannot reach the moon until after a deviation equal to 16 radii of the
earth, which, calculated upon the moon’s orbit, are equal to about
eleven degrees, it becomes necessary to add these eleven degrees to
those which express the retardation of the moon just mentioned: that is
to say, in round numbers, about sixty-four degrees. Consequently, at
the moment of firing the visual radius applied to the moon will
describe, with the vertical line of the place, an angle of sixty-four
degrees.

These are our answers to the questions proposed to the Observatory of
Cambridge by the members of the Gun Club:

1st. The cannon ought to be planted in a country situated between 0°
and 28° of N. or S. lat.

2nd. It ought to be pointed directly toward the zenith of the place.

3rd. The projectile ought to be propelled with an initial velocity of
12,000 yards per second.

4th. It ought to be discharged at 10hrs. 46m. 40sec. of the 1st of
December of the ensuing year.

5th. It will meet the moon four days after its discharge, precisely at
midnight on the 4th of December, at the moment of its transit across
the zenith.

The members of the Gun Club ought, therefore, without delay, to
commence the works necessary for such an experiment, and to be prepared
to set to work at the moment determined upon; for, if they should
suffer this 4th of December to go by, they will not find the moon again
under the same conditions of perigee and of zenith until eighteen years
and eleven days afterward.

The staff of the Cambridge Observatory place themselves entirely at
their disposal in respect of all questions of theoretical astronomy;
and herewith add their congratulations to those of all the rest of
America. For the Astronomical Staff, J. M. BELFAST, Director of the
Observatory of Cambridge.

An observer endued with an infinite range of vision, and placed in that
unknown center around which the entire world revolves, might have
beheld myriads of atoms filling all space during the chaotic epoch of
the universe. Little by little, as ages went on, a change took place; a
general law of attraction manifested itself, to which the hitherto
errant atoms became obedient: these atoms combined together chemically
according to their affinities, formed themselves into molecules, and
composed those nebulous masses with which the depths of the heavens are
strewed. These masses became immediately endued with a rotary motion
around their own central point. This center, formed of indefinite
molecules, began to revolve around its own axis during its gradual
condensation; then, following the immutable laws of mechanics, in
proportion as its bulk diminished by condensation, its rotary motion
became accelerated, and these two effects continuing, the result was
the formation of one principal star, the center of the nebulous mass.

By attentively watching, the observer would then have perceived the
other molecules of the mass, following the example of this central
star, become likewise condensed by gradually accelerated rotation, and
gravitating round it in the shape of innumerable stars. Thus was formed
the Nebulæ, of which astronomers have reckoned up nearly 5,000.

Among these 5,000 nebulæ there is one which has received the name of
the Milky Way, and which contains eighteen millions of stars, each of
which has become the center of a solar world.

If the observer had then specially directed his attention to one of the
more humble and less brilliant of these stellar bodies, a star of the
fourth class, that which is arrogantly called the Sun, all the
phenomena to which the formation of the Universe is to be ascribed
would have been successively fulfilled before his eyes. In fact, he
would have perceived this sun, as yet in the gaseous state, and
composed of moving molecules, revolving round its axis in order to
accomplish its work of concentration. This motion, faithful to the laws
of mechanics, would have been accelerated with the diminution of its
volume; and a moment would have arrived when the centrifugal force
would have overpowered the centripetal, which causes the molecules all
to tend toward the center.

Another phenomenon would now have passed before the observer’s eye, and
the molecules situated on the plane of the equator, escaping like a
stone from a sling of which the cord had suddenly snapped, would have
formed around the sun sundry concentric rings resembling that of
Saturn. In their turn, again, these rings of cosmical matter, excited
by a rotary motion about the central mass, would have been broken up
and decomposed into secondary nebulosities, that is to say, into
planets. Similarly he would have observed these planets throw off one
or more rings each, which became the origin of the secondary bodies
which we call satellites.

Thus, then, advancing from atom to molecule, from molecule to nebulous
mass, from that to principal star, from star to sun, from sun to
planet, and hence to satellite, we have the whole series of
transformations undergone by the heavenly bodies during the first days
of the world.

Now, of those attendant bodies which the sun maintains in their
elliptical orbits by the great law of gravitation, some few in turn
possess satellites. Uranus has eight, Saturn eight, Jupiter four,
Neptune possibly three, and the Earth one. This last, one of the least
important of the entire solar system, we call the Moon; and it is she
whom the daring genius of the Americans professed their intention of
conquering.

The moon, by her comparative proximity, and the constantly varying
appearances produced by her several phases, has always occupied a
considerable share of the attention of the inhabitants of the earth.

From the time of Thales of Miletus, in the fifth century B.C., down to
that of Copernicus in the fifteenth and Tycho Brahé in the sixteenth
century A.D., observations have been from time to time carried on with
more or less correctness, until in the present day the altitudes of the
lunar mountains have been determined with exactitude. Galileo explained
the phenomena of the lunar light produced during certain of her phases
by the existence of mountains, to which he assigned a mean altitude of
27,000 feet. After him Hévelius, an astronomer of Dantzic, reduced the
highest elevations to 15,000 feet; but the calculations of Riccioli
brought them up again to 21,000 feet.

At the close of the eighteenth century Herschel, armed with a powerful
telescope, considerably reduced the preceding measurements. He assigned
a height of 11,400 feet to the maximum elevations, and reduced the mean
of the different altitudes to little more than 2,400 feet. But
Herschel’s calculations were in their turn corrected by the
observations of Halley, Nasmyth, Bianchini, Gruithuysen, and others;
but it was reserved for the labors of Boeer and Maedler finally to
solve the question. They succeeded in measuring 1,905 different
elevations, of which six exceed 15,000 feet, and twenty-two exceed
14,400 feet. The highest summit of all towers to a height of 22,606
feet above the surface of the lunar disc. At the same period the
examination of the moon was completed. She appeared completely riddled
with craters, and her essentially volcanic character was apparent at
each observation. By the absence of refraction in the rays of the
planets occulted by her we conclude that she is absolutely devoid of an
atmosphere. The absence of air entails the absence of water. It became,
therefore, manifest that the Selenites, to support life under such
conditions, must possess a special organization of their own, must
differ remarkably from the inhabitants of the earth.

At length, thanks to modern art, instruments of still higher perfection
searched the moon without intermission, not leaving a single point of
her surface unexplored; and notwithstanding that her diameter measures
2,150 miles, her surface equals the one-fifteenth part of that of our
globe, and her bulk the one-forty-ninth part of that of the terrestrial
spheroid—not one of her secrets was able to escape the eyes of the
astronomers; and these skillful men of science carried to an even
greater degree their prodigious observations.

Thus they remarked that, during full moon, the disc appeared scored in
certain parts with white lines; and, during the phases, with black. On
prosecuting the study of these with still greater precision, they
succeeded in obtaining an exact account of the nature of these lines.
They were long and narrow furrows sunk between parallel ridges,
bordering generally upon the edges of the craters. Their length varied
between ten and 100 miles, and their width was about 1,600 yards.
Astronomers called them chasms, but they could not get any further.
Whether these chasms were the dried-up beds of ancient rivers or not
they were unable thoroughly to ascertain.

The Americans, among others, hoped one day or other to determine this
geological question. They also undertook to examine the true nature of
that system of parallel ramparts discovered on the moon’s surface by
Gruithuysen, a learned professor of Munich, who considered them to be
“a system of fortifications thrown up by the Selenitic engineers.”
These two points, yet obscure, as well as others, no doubt, could not
be definitely settled except by direct communication with the moon.
